Question:

> Please could you teach me how to make my own breed names. :)

Answer:

Sure, what's the problem exactly?  To make non-overwriting breedfiles
which are not external-lnz, you only _need_ to change two things; the
Byte, or ID number, and the Name.  If you're using a hex editor, here's
how to do the Name:

THE NAME
--------

So, you want to rename the breed.  Say you want to hex a "Minifluff"
breed.  First off, you'll need to physically name the breedfile, so save
what you've done so far and exit from the hex editor.  Name the breed
Minifluff.cat and re-open it into the editor.  Now search for the Hex
string:

50004600

This gets you down to the bottom of the file, where the bit that looks
like P.F.M.a.g.i.c starts, and just above the breed name which looks
like

..H.o.m.e.b.o.d.
y...P.e.r.s.i.a.
n...P.r.........

Don't touch the ...H.o.m.e.b.o.d.y or ...P.r unless you know exactly
what you're doing; changing the first can crash the game right away, and
changing the second causes a crash just as your pets are about to make a
Happy Announcement.  It's possible to change them if you change _every_
reference to Homebody or Pr earlier in the breedfile, but you don't need
to do it and it's more bother, more things to go wrong for a hexer who's
just beginning to make separate breedz.

Replace the letters of P.e.r.s.i.a.n with those of your own breed. 
Don't go changing the dots in between the letters -- those _have_ to be
null bytes (hex 00).  Now, Minifluff is two letters longer than Persian,
so you'll have to add the final two letters to the end of the name, with
00 between each letter, and we end up with what looks like
M.i.n.i.f.l.u.f.f. Now, this makes the breedfile four bytes longer than
it was so, in the area of null bytes directly after P.r. delete four
bytes.  Also, the letter count is wrong.  "Eh?  Wot letter count?"  I
hear you cry...  Well, take a look at the three dots between
H.o.m.e.b.o.d.y and M.i.n.i.f.l.u.f.f, in the hex section of the
editor.  You should see 00 07 00. This tells the program that Persian is
7 letters long. You need to tell the program that Minifluff is 9 letters
long -- so, change that 07 to 09 and the letter count is correct. 
Remember, when putting in the letter-count, that the number is in
hexadecimal, so that if your name is 12 letters long, your number is 0C.

If the new breed name were to be shorter than the original (i.e. just
"Mini"), you could if you wished leave the letter count alone and simply
fill in the unused letters with null bytes (...M.i.n.i.........P.r), or
you could change it to ...M.i.n.i...P.r, change the letter-count to 04,
and correct the file size by putting 6 null bytes in after the P.r.  The
latter is the more elegant thing to do.

If you _have_ decided to also change the pet name and/or 2-letter mnemonic
P.r, do that in the same way, but remember that you're going to have to
also change them elsewhere in the file  The instances of pr here:

Liveliness..\Ptz
Files\cat\BEvent
_cat_Mixed.txt..
\Ptzfiles\cat\pr
\BEvent_cat_pr.t
xt..\ptzfiles\ca
t\pr\pr.lnz.\ptz
files\cat\cat.sc
p...\ptzfiles\ca
t\pr\pr.scp.....

and P.R here, plus here is where you would change H.O.M.E.B.O.D.Y

..........B.M.P.
..H.O.M.E.B.O.D.
Y...L.N.Z...P.R.
..P.R.K.I.T...S.
C.P...T.X.T...B.
E.V.E.N.T._.C.A.
T._.P.R...P.R.S.
N.D...W.A.V...C.

and Homebody here, where the ID number is

....PersianSprit
e...............
....Homebody....

If you're using Resource Hacker, the naming is simpler; go to String
Table, 63, click on 1033 and type in the name you want instead of the
breed name.  However, to change the ID number I believe you still need
to alter something in a hex editor even if you use ResHacker to save out
the RCData resources (using the Action menu) then, after editing, from
the Action Menu choose "Replace other Resource" to put it back in.  So
as far as I know, you need a hex editor or LNZPro 2 for this:

THE BYTE, or ID NUMBER
-----------------------

This is very important if you want your breed to show up separately in
the Adoption Centre.  It's the offset byte/number.  Don't panic!  This
is actually very simple when you know what to look for.  In a breedfile
which has not been ResHacked it comes just before the section which
starts with BM, so search for the uppercase letters .  In a breedfile
which has been ResHacked, it comes just after the naming area of the
file, so search for the hex string 50004600 go get to a few lines above
it.

The original Bunny and Pig are the only breeds which look a little
different at this point, because there is a larger gap between the list
and the BM. The reason for the gap is because there is a small,
headerless bitmap tucked in there, but it's not important to the hexer
and the offset byte is still in the line above the first bitmap to start
with BM.  In the Bunny, you will see BunnySprite, then Cotton, then BM4,
and the offset is between Cotton and BM4.  In the Pig, you will see
PigSprite, then Wilbur, then BM, and the offset is between Wilbur and
BM.

In a non-ResHacked Persian, therefore, the list ends with what looks (in
the ASCII part of the hex editor) like

00033456 4500 5700 5400 4900 3800 0000 0000 0000 E.W.T.I.8.......
00033472 0100 0000 5065 7273 6961 6E53 7072 6974 ....PersianSprit
00033488 6500 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 e...............
00033504 0000 0000 486F 6D65 626F 6479 0000 0000 ....Homebody....
00033520 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 ................
00033536 0000 0000 EB03 0000 0100 0000 0000 0000 ................
00033552 424D C029 0000 0000 0000 3204 0000 2800 BM.)......2...(.

Now, look at the line just above BM.) in the _hex numbers_ section --
highlight that line by clicking the left mouse button at the beginning
of it, holding the button down while running along the line, then
lifting your finger.  The line will look very like this:

0000 0000 EB03 0000 0100 0000 0000 0000

Either or both of the two bytes EB and 03 can be changed to any other
hexadecimal number.  In case you're not familiar with the way Hex
numbers count upwards, here's a table of our normal Decimal system
alongside the Hexadecimal:

Dec     Hex
 0      00
 1      01
 2      02
 3      03
 4      04
 5      05
 6      06
 7      07
 8      08
 9      09
 10     0A
 11     0B
 12     0C
 13     0D
 14     0E
 15     0F
 16     10
 17     11
 18     12
etc

If you're still not sure, use the calculator that comes with Windows;
choose View > Scientific.  You can then put in a number in Decimal (Dec)
and see it converted to Hex.

Although you can easily choose a number that won't clash with other
breeds on your computer, if you want to make your breed available to
others, you're going to come up against one small problem that we all
have; making sure that our breeds don't clash with anyone else's.  In
the past, the PetzGallery doled out numbers to people who wanted to
conform to the "PetzGallery Standard".  Nowadays, the best thing to do
is to pop along to the P.O.N.D. site http://zeva.sphosting.com/pond/ and
see what numbers are "taken".  Of course the numbers list isn't
complete, but it's the best you can do.  Some sites have their numbers
listed, such as Vickie's Petz zoo and mine (in the Infobits page).  Mine
are simple; the ones I was given by the PetzGallery are:  all of 0009 to
FF09 all of 0040 to FF40 and these are the ones I've used for my breedz
as well as for many other people's breedz.  Good numbers to avoid are
those ending in 03 or 04, since in the early Petz 3 days those were the
numbers most used. 

If the file had been edited with Resource Hacker at some time in the
past, and you're looking for the ID number in a hex editor, you'll find
it below the naming area (search for the hex string 50004600) and below
the words PersianSprite and Homebody.  Look in the hex numbers section
on the bottom line of this example and you'll see EB03.

00719552 2900 2000 3100 3900 3900 3700 2000 5000 ). .1.9.9.7. .P.
00719568 4600 2E00 4D00 6100 6700 6900 6300 2C00 F...M.a.g.i.c.,.
00719584 2000 4900 6E00 6300 2E00 0000 0000 0000  .I.n.c.........
00719600 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 ................
00719616 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 ................
00719632 0800 4800 6F00 6D00 6500 6200 6F00 6400 ..H.o.m.e.b.o.d.
00719648 7900 0700 5000 6500 7200 7300 6900 6100 y...P.e.r.s.i.a.
00719664 6E00 0200 5000 7200 0000 0000 0000 0000 n...P.r.........
00719680 0000 0000 0100 0000 5065 7273 6961 6E53 ........PersianS
00719696 7072 6974 6500 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 prite...........
00719712 0000 0000 0000 0000 486F 6D65 626F 6479 ........Homebody
00719728 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 ................
00719744 0000 0000 0000 0000 EB03 0000 0100 0000 ................

You should now be able to open your breedfile and the Persian in the
same game.

"Still won't show up" Troubleshooting
-------------------------------------

The first thing is to remember, for each letter you add there must be a
null byte (Hex 00) after it -- even if that letter is a space such as
you would have between "Minifluff" and "Puff" in a "Minifluff Puff.cat"
breed.

Second, that letter count must be right!  (Also, by the way, _don't_
remove the letter-count of 02 from in front of the P.r. or you will have
troubles later.)

Third, you did name the breed the exact same name as you're entering
into this area, didn't you?

Fourth, check that your Offset Byte (see first section above) is
different from the other breeds you've got in your Resource directory.
 
Fifth, if you hexed this breed in a hex editor is that you need to end
up with the .cat or .dog file exactly the same length as before, so that
for every byte you add in the name, you must delete a byte in the area
of null bytes which comes after the name and two-letter mnemonic (P.r in
the case of the Persian).  And for every byte you delete in the name,
you must _add_ one in that area.

Sixth, if you edited it in Resource Hacker, check that the program
didn't corrupt the file.  Resource Hacker corrupts files very easily. 
You might find that the file won't open again in Resource Hacker, or you
might find that something has corrupted in the String Table section. 
Simply re-type the information that should be in there, compile, and
save.  With any luck, if that was what was wrong, the breedfile will now
work.

All that's left after that is to change the Adoption centre bitmap if
you want to.  I'd wait until you've got the naming and ID right before
tackling that, but I do have information on how to do that in my old
breed-editing tutorials.

Hope that helps

Carolyn
